Much Anticipated Camp Docs (#158)
LLNL/camp: docs/sphinx/user_guide/feature/array.rst

.. _array-label:

======
Arrays
======

Camp has its own Array implementation very similar to C++ std::array. Array functionality is
included in the ``array.hpp`` file within ``include/camp/``. 

Some important notes: 

.. note:: All Camp structures and classes are in the namespace ``camp``.
          
----------------
Array Philosophy
----------------

In C++, an array is a constant-sized, statically allocated slice of contiguous memory. 
While C++ arrays are conceptually equivalent to C-style arrays--in that their size must be known 
at compile time--they have many quality-of-life features that make them easier and more convenient to use. 

> For example, in C, one might allocate memory in as follows:: 

Reviewer: Would it be better to condense the C and C++ array discussion to something like this:

double arr[N];

This is valid in C and C++ and illustrates a static (i.e., automatic) allocation.

The examples using malloc and new are run time allocations from the free store, which is not the same as the std::array example below. That is also a static allocation.

Reviewer 2: careful of terms here statis storage duration is for storage that lasts the length of the program, automatic lasts until it goes out of scope, and dynamic is user controlled.

  
  #define N 100
  double* arr = (double *)malloc(sizeof(double) * N);

This is the super clunky and old-school way to do it, but in the end, we get a slice of 
memory that can hold ``N`` double values. But alas, we must do all of our own memory management,
implement our own operators to iterate over the values, everything. 

C++ introduces a `new` way to do the same thing, at the language level, using the ``new`` keyword:

.. code-block:: c

    constexpr size_t N = 100;

    double* arr = new double[N];

This example is functionally equivalent to the C example in basically every way, the only difference 
being that our call to ``new`` obfuscates the call to ``malloc``. 

Finally, the C++ standard library (STL) implemented an ``array`` class, which provides access functions, 
iterators, size information, and automatic memory management!

.. code-block:: cpp

    constexpr size_t N = 100; // size must be known at compile time

    std::array<double, N> arr;

The only drawback from the STL array implementation is that it can only be used on the ``host``, not any ``device``. 

> That's where Camp comes in. The ``camp::array`` retains all of the features from the STL array, but can also be run on 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's where Camp comes in. The ``camp::array`` retains all of the features from the STL array, but can also be used in GPU device code.
```

> GPU's!

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

-----------------------
The camp::array methods
-----------------------

> The camp array syntax is exactly the same as the C++ standard library syntax, the only 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Camp array syntax is exactly the same as the C++ standard library syntax, the only 
```

Capitalization consistency

difference being that we use the ``camp`` namespace instead of ``std``.

.. code-block:: cpp

    constexpr size_t N = 100;

    camp::array<double, N> arr;

It's that simple!

.. important:: 

>   While the Camp Array tries to emulate the STL array as closely as it can, there are some key differences 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  While the Camp ``Array`` tries to emulate the STL array as closely as it can, there are some key differences 
```

  that users should be aware of: 
  
  * no ``__device__ "at"`` method. The ``at`` method has the potential to throw exceptions, which is not GPU friendly.
  * Calling ``front()`` or ``back()`` is a compile time error when ``size() == 0``, 
    as opposed to undefined  behaviour set by the C++ standard.

>   * camp arrays do not have reverse iterators implemented. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Camp arrays do not have reverse iterators implemented. 
```

>   * camp arrays do not have the ``swap`` method implemented.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Camp arrays do not have the ``swap`` method implemented.   
```

Constructors
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Camp arrays, like their STL counterparts, require the size and the type to be known at compile time. The array constructor is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Camp arrays, like their STL counterparts, require the size and data type to be known at compile time. The array constructor is as follows:
```

  
.. code-block:: cpp

    camp::array<class T, std::size_t N>;

where T and N are provided by the user. In our previous example, we created an array of 100 ``doubles``:
  
.. code-block:: cpp

    constexpr size_t N = 100; 

    camp::array<double, N> arr;

We can also initialize our array at compile time, if we know the values:

.. code-block:: cpp
  
    camp::array<int, 3> arr = {1, 2, 3};

Element Access
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To access an element of the array, we can either use the ``operator[]``, or the ``at`` methods. The only real difference between these 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To access an element of an array, we can either use the ``operator[]``, or the ``at`` methods. The only real difference between these 
```

two methods is that the ``at`` method performs bounds checking on the input, and will throw an exception if the index requested is out of 
the bounds of the array.

.. code-block:: cpp

    camp::array<int, 3> arr  = {1, 2, 3};
    std::cout << arr[1] << std::endl; // prints 2
    std::cout << arr.at(2) << std::endl; // prints 3
    std::cout << arr.at(4) << std::endl; // throws std::out_of_range
    std::cout << arr[4] << std::endl; // undefined behaviour; accesses illegal memory

The ``front()`` and ``back()`` methods can be used to obtain a reference (const or non-const) to the first and last element in the array, respectively:

.. code-block:: cpp

    camp::array<int, 3> arr  = {1, 2, 3};
    std::cout << "front is " << arr.front() << ", back is " << arr.back() <<std::endl;
    // output: front is 1, back is 3

    arr.front() = 4;
    // arr is now {4, 2, 3}

> A pointer to the underlying data can be obtained using the ``data()`` method. Camp::array implements ``begin(), end(), cbegin(),`` and ``cend()`` iterator functions, which allow it to be used interchangeably in many c++ algorithms in the standard library, and beyond:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A pointer to the underlying data can be obtained using the ``data()`` method. camp::array implements ``begin(), end(), cbegin(),`` and ``cend()`` iterator functions, which allow it to be used interchangeably in many c++ algorithms in the standard library, and beyond:
```

Also, an example of using the data() method similar to the others where you have to derefence the pointer (via [] or *) would be good to add.

.. code-block:: cpp
  
    camp::array<int, 3> arr  = {1, 2, 3};
    for (const auto elem : arr) { 
      std::cout << elem << "\n";
    }

Camp provides multiple ``get`` methods that can be used for constexpr element access and moving:

.. code-block:: cpp

    camp::array<int, 3> arr  = {1, 2, 3};
    return camp::get<1>(arr); // returns 2

> ``get`` can return const and non-const lvalue references, and rvalue references. 

Reviewer: Simple examples of these would be good to add.

Author: (Since the above comment had a committed suggestion, it comes up as resolved - I am copy-pasting the comment part here too to keep track of it...)
....
Line 130: Also, an example of using the data() method similar to the others where you have to derefence the pointer (via [] or *) would be good to add.

Size methods
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The Camp array contains a ``size()`` method which can be used to find the number of elements that was allocated for the array. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Camp array contains a ``size()`` method which can be used to find the number of elements contained in the array. 
```

This is the same number that is passed into the array when it is constructed. The ``max_size()`` method does the same thing, as the 

> size of an array is necessarily the maximum size, since arrays have constant size. The ``empty()`` method returns a bool indicating 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
size of an array is necessarily the maximum size, since an array has constant size. The ``empty()`` method returns a bool indicating 
```

SIngular/plural consistency.

whether the array has any elements. Since the array's  size is determined at compile time, the value of ``empty()`` will be true, unless 

> an array is constructed with ``size  == 0``, which would be kind of pointless if you ask me. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an array is constructed with ``size  == 0``, which would be kind of pointless. 
```

The Camp array contains a ``fill`` method, which can be used to set all of the values of the array to one value:

> .. code-block:: cpp

Reviewer: ```suggestion

.. code-block:: cpp
```

I thin a blank line is needed before to properly format.

    camp::array<int, 3> arr  = {1, 2, 3};
    // array is {1, 2, 3}
    arr.fill(0);
    // array is {0, 0, 0}

Array Comparisons
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The Camp Array defines all of the standard comparison operators: ``==, !=, <, <=, >, >=``. Note that ``<, <=, >, >=`` use a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Camp array defines all of the standard comparison operators: ``==, !=, <, <=, >, >=``. Note that ``<, <=, >, >=`` use a 
```

Capitalization consistency.

.. _array-label:

======
Arrays
======

Camp has its own Array implementation very similar to C++ std::array. Array functionality is

> included in the ``array.hpp`` file within ``include/camp/``. 

Reviewer 3: The main difference, for both this and `tuple` is that the types are intentionally supported across host and device.  Might be worth mentioning.

Author: Done
